Add Angular preloading strategies (#1117)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/angular/route-preloading/index.md

---
layout: post
title: 'Route preloading strategies in Angular'
subhead: |
  Preload routes ahead of time to speed up users' navigation.

> hero: route-preloading.jpg

Reviewer: Mind adding `hero_position: bottom` to better center the image?

Author: Done

alt: Glass crystal ball
date: 2019-07-09
description: |
  Learn how to use Angular's preloading strategies for faster apps.
authors:

>   - mgechev

Reviewer: Can you add a:

```
tags:
  - angular
```

Author: Done

---
layout: post
title: 'Route preloading strategies in Angular'
subhead: |
  Preload routes ahead of time to speed up users' navigation!

> hero: route-preloading.jpg

Reviewer 2: OK, sorry to be a pain, but I didn't realize this was a crystal ball until I read the alt text :)
Also, we might want to avoid stereotypes about the Roma. If you want to get at the idea of looking into the future, what about something like one of these?
- https://www.shutterstock.com/image-illustration/across-universe-traveling-space-time-travel-200832383
- https://www.shutterstock.com/image-illustration/colorful-3d-speed-tunnel-warp-234238399
- https://www.istockphoto.com/photo/time-machine-telegraph-going-to-the-future-gm838386376-136450705

Author: I picked this one because of the Guess.js logo https://github.com/guess-js/media. Not feeling strongly about it, we can go with anything which feels right.

Reviewer 2: Fair enough. Letting it go :)

alt: Glass crystal ball
date: 2019-07-09
description: |
  Learn how to use Angular's preloading strategies for faster apps.
authors:
  - mgechev
---

> Route-level code-splitting can help you reduce the initial load time of an application by delaying the JavaScript associated with routes that aren't initially needed. This way, the Angular router waits until a user navigates to a given route before triggering a network request to download the associated JavaScript.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Route-level code-splitting](/route-level-code-splitting) can help you reduce the initial load time of an application by delaying the JavaScript associated with routes that aren't initially needed. This way, the Angular router waits until a user navigates to a given route before triggering a network request to download the associated JavaScript.
```

While this technique is great for initial page load, it can slow down navigation, depending on the users' network latency and bandwidth. One way to tackle this problem is **route preloading**. Using preloading, when the user is at a given route, you can download and cache JavaScript associated with routes that are likely to be needed next. The Angular router provides this functionality out of the box.

In this post, you'll learn how to speed up navigation when using route-level code-splitting by taking advantage of JavaScript preloading in Angular.

## Route preloading strategies in Angular

The Angular router provides a configuration property called `preloadingStrategy`, which defines the logic for preloading and processing lazy-loaded Angular modules. We'll cover two possible strategies:

* `PreloadAllModules`, which preloads all lazy-loaded routes, as the name implies
* `QuicklinkStrategy`, which preloads only the routes associated with links on the current page.

> <p style="text-align: right">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Not sure why this is aligned right?

> <em>The rest of this post refers to a sample Angular app. You can find the source code on <a href="https://github.com/mgechev/route-preloading-web-dev">GitHub</a>.</em></p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_The rest of this post refers to a sample Angular app. You can find the source code [on GitHub](https://github.com/mgechev/route-preloading-web-dev)._
```

### Using the `PreloadAllModules` strategy

The sample app has several lazy-loaded routes. To preload all of them using the `PreloadAllModules` strategy—which is built into Angular—specify it as the value for the `preloadingStrategy` property in the router configuration:

```js
import { RouterModule, PreloadAllModules } from '@angular/router';
// ...

RouterModule.forRoot([
  ...
], {
  preloadingStrategy: PreloadAllModules
})
// ...
```

> Now let's serve the application and look at the **Network** panel in Chrome DevTools:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now serve the application and look at the **Network** panel in Chrome DevTools:
```

{% Instruction 'devtools-network', 'ol' %}

You should see that the router downloaded `nyan-nyan-module.js` and `about-about-module.js` in the background when you opened the application:

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
<video controls loop muted poster="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-angular/preloading/poster.png">
  <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-angular/preloading/preload-all.webm" type="video/webm; codecs=vp8">
  <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-angular/preloading/preload-all.mp4" type="video/mp4; codecs=h264">
</video>
 <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">

>     Fig. 1 — PreloadAll Angular strategy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The PreloadAllModules strategy in action.
```

  </figcaption>
</figure>

> The router also registered the modules' route declarations so that when you navigate to a URL associated with any of the preloaded modules, the transition is instantaneous.

Reviewer 2: This is actually the idea for which I thought a video would be most helpful: it's hard to see that the transitions are instantaneous without a video. What do you think?

Author: I wanted to show the timing of prefetching the bundles. Maybe I can provide one more video showing slow navigation and another showing faster navigation after prefetching.

Reviewer 2: That actually sounds kind of onerous. Let's give it a pass, and I'll approve the post :)

### Using the Quicklink preloading strategy

`PreloadAllModules` is useful in a lot of cases. When you have dozens of modules, however, its aggressive preloading can really increase network usage. Also, since the router needs to register the routes in all the preloaded modules, it can cause intensive computations in the UI thread and lead to sluggish user experience.

The [quicklink](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/quicklink) library provides a better strategy for larger apps. It uses the [IntersectionObserver](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2019/02/intersectionobserver-v2) API to preload only modules associated with links that are currently visible on the page.

> You can add quicklink to an Angular app by using the [ngx-quicklink](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngx-quicklink) package. To use `ngx-quicklink` you first have to install it from npm:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add quicklink to an Angular app by using the [ngx-quicklink](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ngx-quicklink) package. Start by installing the package from npm:
```
Sorry, didn't catch this redundancy yesterday.

```
npm install --save quicklink
```

> Once it's available in your project, you can use the `QuicklinkStrategy` by specifying the router's `preloadingStrategy` and importing the `QuicklinkModule`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once it's available in your project, you can use `QuicklinkStrategy` by specifying the router's `preloadingStrategy` and importing the `QuicklinkModule`:
```

```js
import {QuicklinkStrategy, QuicklinkModule} from 'ngx-quicklink';
...

@NgModule({
  ...
  imports: [
    ...
    QuicklinkModule,
    RouterModule.forRoot([...], {
      preloadingStrategy: QuicklinkStrategy
    })
  ],
  ...
})
export class AppModule {}
```

> Now when you open the application again, you'll notice that the router only preloads `nyan-nyan-module.js` since the button in the center of the page has a router link to it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now when you open the application again, you'll notice that the router only preloads `nyan-nyan-module.js` since the button in the center of the page has a router link to it. And when you open the side navigation, you'll notice that the router then preloads the "About" route:
```
Since there's only one video, these sentences should be in a single paragraph.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> When you open the side navigation you'll notice that the router then preloads the ”About” route:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
<video controls loop muted poster="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-angular/preloading/poster.png">
  <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-angular/preloading/ngx-quicklink.webm" type="video/webm; codecs=vp8">
  <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-angular/preloading/ngx-quicklink.mp4" type="video/mp4; codecs=h264">
</video>
 <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">

>     Fig. 2 — Quicklink Preloading Strategy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    A demo of the quicklink preloading strategy.
```

  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Going beyond basic preloading

While selective preloading via quicklink can significantly speed up navigation, you can make your preloading strategy even more network efficient by using predictive preloading—which is implemented by [Guess.js](https://github.com/guess-js/guess). By analyzing a report from Google Analytics or another analytics provider, Guess.js can predict a user's navigation journey and preload only the JavaScript chunks that are likely to be needed next.

You can learn how to use Guess.js with Angular on [this page from the Guess.js site](https://guess-js.github.io/docs/angular).

## Conclusion

To speed up navigation when using route-level code-splitting:

1. Pick the right preloading strategy depending on the size of your application:

>     1. Applications with few modules can use Angular's built-in `PreloadAllModules` strategy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Applications with few modules can use Angular's built-in `PreloadAllModules` strategy.
```

>     1. Applications with many modules should use a custom preloading strategy, like Angular's quicklink, or predictive preloading, as implemented in Guess.js.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Applications with many modules should use a custom preloading strategy, like Angular's quicklink, or predictive preloading, as implemented in Guess.js.
```
